# landsat-ldope-tools
#summary Version 1.4 of the Landsat LDOPE Toolkit.
== Landsat-LDOPE-Tools Version 1.4 Release Notes ==
Release Date: April 2017

### Support Information
This project is unsupported software provided by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) Earth Resources Observation and Science (EROS) Land Satellite Data Systems (LSDS) Project. For questions regarding products produced by this source code, please contact us at custserv@usgs.gov.

### Disclaimer
This software is preliminary or provisional and is subject to revision. It is being provided to meet the need for timely best science. The software has not received final approval by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). No warranty, expressed or implied, is made by the USGS or the U.S. Government as to the functionality of the software and related material nor shall the fact of release constitute any such warranty. The software is provided on the condition that neither the USGS nor the U.S. Government shall be held liable for any damages resulting from the authorized or unauthorized use of the software.

### Downloads
landsat-ldope-tools source code

    git clone https://github.com/USGS-EROS/landsat-ldope-tools.git

See git tag [lldope_v1.4]

### Dependencies
  * GCTP libraries (obtained from the GCTP directory in the HDF-EOS2 source code)
  * TIFF libraries (3.8.2 or most current) -- ftp://ftp.remotesensing.org/pub/libtiff/
  * GeoTIFF libraries (1.2.5 or most current) -- ftp://ftp.remotesensing.org/pub/geotiff/libgeotiff/
  * HDF4 libraries (4.2.5 or most current) -- https://www.hdfgroup.org/ftp/HDF/releases/
  * HDF-EOS2 libraries (2.18 or most current) -- ftp://edhs1.gsfc.nasa.gov/edhs/hdfeos/latest_release/
  * JPEG libraries (version 6b) -- http://www.ijg.org/files/
  * ZLIB libraries (version 1.2.8) -- http://zlib.net/
  * Surface reflectance products generated by LEDAPS or LaSRC (via ESPA) or Landsat OLI L1T products (from GloVis or EE)

NOTE: The HDF-EOS2 link currently provides the source for the HDF4, JPEG, and ZLIB libraries in addition to the HDF-EOS2 library.

### Installation
  * Install dependent libraries - HDF4, HDF-EOS2, TIFF, GeoTIFF, SZIP, ZLIB, JPEG, and GCTP (as delivered with HDF-EOS)
  * Set up environment variables.  Can create an environment shell file or add the following to your bash shell.  For C shell, use 'setenv VAR "directory"'.  These same environment variables are defined at the top of each Makefile, thus if the environment variables do not exist then they can be defined as appropriate in the Makefile.  If the environment variables are defined and desired to be used, then the user should delete/comment the variables defined in the Makefile.
  ```
    export GCTPINC="path_to_HDF-EOS_GCTP_include_files"
    export GCTPLIB="path_to_HDF-EOS_GCTP_libraries"
    export TIFFINC="path_to_TIFF_include_files"
    export TIFFLIB="path_to_TIFF_libraries"
    export GEOTIFF_INC="path_to_GEOTIFF_include_files"
    export GEOTIFF_LIB="path_to_GEOTIFF_libraries"
    export HDFINC="path_to_HDF_include_files"
    export HDFLIB="path_to_HDF_libraries"
    export HDFEOS_INC="path_to_HDFEOS_include_files"
    export HDFEOS_LIB="path_to_HDFEOS_libraries"
    export SZIPINC="path_to_SZIP_include_files"
    export SZIPLIB="path_to_SZIP_libraries"
    export ZLIBINC="path_to_ZLIB_include_files"
    export ZLIBLIB="path_to_ZLIB_libraries"
    export JPEGINC="path_to_JPEG_include_files"
    export JPEGLIB="path_to_JPEG_libraries"
  ```

  * Checkout (from USGS Github landsat-ldope-tools project) and install source files
  ```
    cd src
    make -f Makefile{_unpack}.{windows|linux}{32|64}
  ```

This will create various executable files under ../bin, depending on which Makefile was used for building.  The user should make sure to utilize the appropriate Makefile for their OS and machine architecture.

### Test 

Download your desired Landsat product(s)(surface reflectance) or OLI L1T from ESPA or GloVis/EE, respectively.  Then run the desired tool for the downloaded Landsat product.

### Web Page 

More information about the tools can be found at the following URL: 

https://landsat.usgs.gov/landsat-qa-tools

### User Guide

The User Guide is available at https://landsat.usgs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/landsat_QA_tools_userguide.pdf 

## Release Notes
  * Updated READMEs to reflect new links to web page and user guide and
    new name "Landsat QA Tools" for zip package
 
